As you know
I will take the opportunity of this seminar
to expose and share with you the work done in the realms
of Location based services for generating Location Proofs.
This will fit into the related work section of my Master thesis
on which I am also syncronously working, in this semester.

With this seminar, I want to take you on the journey 
of dissecting the multiple attempts at providing 
and building proof-of-location systems,
how they evolved not just in terms of trust levels
but also in terms of infrastructure dependencies,
ultimately targeting the shift to fully 
decentralized and trustless solutions.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

But first, I shall introduce you again to the concept
of a (digital) Proof-of-Location.
Which is nothing more profound than
an electronic certificate that attests 
one’s relative position in both space and time.

The general idea is that this location proof
evokes an act of witnessing and mixes 
multiple types of interactions between entities
with different dynamic properties.
Usually, we expect the existence of a prover 
that engages in any short ranged communication protocol 
with nearby participants,
the witnesses, with the goal of gathering 
a verifiable Proof-of-Location claim, to be later
presented to a verifier, therefore convincing it 
of one’s existence within a geographical
area, at a given moment.

Provers are dynamic entities, or more dynamic than witnesses,
meaning that they are usually moving around and entering the
witnesses range of communication whenever they would need to
gather a proof of their location.
Verifiers do not matter much to the witnessing process, 
as the interaction with the prover
usually happens later and asynchronously and typically 
does not require short range communication channels.
But they are the basis of the motivation behind the whole
proof-of-location purpose. They represent all the 
location-based access control systems
liablity claims
location assertions
review systems
physical stores
event registrations
etc...

--------------------------------------------------------------------

In the beginning of this century
The first ideas around this Proof-of-Location concept
started to emerge, as expected, initially in a very centralized setting.
The first works usually involved trusted servers that would sign
the round-trip communication proof for an also trusted prover.
These schemes were still far from considering any anonymization
or pseudoanonymization ideas, as every party was known and trusted.

Later, we started to see a decentralized shift and more user-centric
approach, where the provers are expected to hide their identity and
thus being relatively anonymous, in relation to still trusted 
or semi-trusted servers.

Finally, we reach a point where we may not need at all this weird
concept of trust. And the first solutions that would assume
some probablistic and distributed levels of security, using blockchain,
saw their way forward. 
There is work done in both permissioned and permissionless networks,
where blockchains are used as a publicly trusted record keeper,
for both identity and information verification, generated by
untrusted or anonymous entities.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Overall, there is a variety of paths that I will try to dissect later on
that provide interesting solutions to enhance specific properties.

For example, there is work that seems to be theoretically secure
and this one, specifically, uses secure multi-party computations
between the witnesses, instead of a typical multi or group signatures.
This work has its drawbacks, of course, bc for example it assumes 
the existence of directional antenas in the short range interactions.

Then there is work that goes in the decentralized direction,
establishing the use of blockchain technology to store the location proofs
gathered from multiple witnesses. This one specifically ends up
using Bluetooth as the short range communication means.

There is also work that builds on top of the overall concept
adding privacy preserving techniques to hide the related information
from the multiple entities. This one specifically is still in the
realms of a more centralized approach, but introduces interesting
ideas like Zero-Knowledge technology.

Finally, there is work, more product oriented, that tries to do
a bit of all this and actually ship this into the wild.
FOAM is a a decentralized Proof of Location protocol that
mixes a lot of these concepts to create a fully trustless service.
It uses LoRa as the communication tech, but
it nicely explores all these ideas (picture).

As a footnote, all these solutions are usually expected
to formally be secure if generally
complete, spatio-temporally sound, and non-transferable.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

As appendix to this presentation
Let's just quickly dive into the idea for my thesis.
My main goal is to connect the concept of Ad-hoc 
dynamic and non-hierarchic mesh networks, 
establish neighboring zones of nearby nodes
that form coverage polygons via their short range communications
and end up synchronizing their internal clocks
in such a way that they end up discretizing time synchronously
at the same pace, like a replicated state machine, like in Bitcoin network
or in other words, as I like to call it, reaching permissionless consensus.
Then these nodes that form these zones can act as witnesses
and finally attest or sign the existence of a prover who wishes to gather
a proof of its presence in that given zone, at a given relative point in time.
If we stretch the relativity theory of einstein
and for example assert the existence of one of the witnesses in absolute terms
for example near some known monument,
and their time discretization to be publicly paced, 
for example with the help of a public timestamping server, 
like a public blockchain network
We can finally reach the ultimate goal of absolute proof-of-location.

